[Music]
Question from Nick Minh
Ngoc: Hello Auntie, I have a
heartache that is causing me great pain and I don't
know how to resolve it. I've been
married for 9 years and have three children. My
husband and I are
unhappy, so I've had an
affair with an unmarried man for
5 years
now. Everything came to light 5 months ago, and my family found out.
Both families
still want us to stay together, and
my husband feels the same way. He says he'll forgive me because he
wants to keep the family together and doesn't want the children
to be
ashamed. But I know my husband can't
forgive me yet. Since he found out,
he's been very angry and resentful towards me. He even
went looking for the other man to
beat him up. Seeing him like that, I feel
guilty towards my husband and children, and I also feel sorry for the
other man. My love for my husband is gone; it's
only a sense of
responsibility towards my children, plus the fact that I
cheated on him. If
my husband can't forgive me and we
try to stay together out of a sense of responsibility, it will only
make things worse. I know
I've done something wrong, but...  Now
I have no one else to share with besides
him, so we still keep in touch.
He said he will wait for me.
I'm heartbroken and very distressed by
guilt and because I can't find the
best solution for everyone. I
hope you can give
me some advice. Do you think if you were in
this situation, wouldn't you be miserable? It's
very miserable, it's miserable in
my heart. If all three of us
met Yen, we could solve the
problem, but if only one of us met her, it
wouldn't be solved because
no one would understand and no one would follow. It's
impossible to do it alone. The
wife might blame her husband, saying, "
Why did you do this to me? I forgave
you. Why did you go
looking for the other person to beat them up? Everyone saw,
right? I forgave you. Why do you treat me like this
every day and
occasionally make sarcastic or hurtful remarks?"
The husband might ask, "
Why did you do this to me?
I loved you so much,
yet you betrayed me. You
betrayed me!"  For so many long years, she's been so
deceitful.
These two reproachful questions
prevent them from reaching a resolution. The
wife, now faced with her husband's anger and the differing opinions of both
sides, is
alone and unable to confide in anyone because she's
realized her mistake, everything has been exposed, her
guilt is evident, but now she has no
one to share it with. The
only one she can confide in is her lover.
Who else would
seek someone to share their sadness with? No one would
refuse someone who offers solitude, right? When you're sad, you need
someone to share with. So,
unconsciously, their
fate is bound
together; they can't be separated.
As for the husband, he carries so much
guilt in his heart. When he eats, he
imagines his wife eating with her
lover; when he's in bed, he imagines
his wife
making love with her lover. Now, all the wife
needs to say is, "Husband..."  So, you can
imagine the phrase "calling the lover 'my dear,'
right? It means the wife is in the
husband's heart, there's no
chance left, no chance at all,
because the husband is obsessed. And what about the mistress? She's just a pawn,
what's the big deal?
These two keep clashing, but
a single word from the other is
incredibly valuable, so very valuable. It can
ease all the pain, just one sentence, "I
will wait for you,"
just one sentence like that, and it
destroys everything. The husband and wife
can never rekindle their feelings for each other.
But if that third person
hears this story, I would
analyze that third person as a very evil person.
This person
doesn't
think about the wife's duties, the daughter-in-law's duties, or the
mother's duties. They steal everything
that a woman should have – her reputation in life – and they
can trample on her for every reason.
The so-called fleeting emotions are just temporary, and
this third man is completely
immoral. An immoral person who
tramples on everything for
their own selfishness will never bring
happiness to their
life. If this woman leaves her husband and goes with
that other man, at best it will only last five
months. That other man is still the same person, right? And he's a single man.
As for her, she's
already been married. At that point, she'll face
pressure from family,
friends, and society.
A selfish person can't last forever,
right? We have to
analyze this: this man has karma,
so of course he'll manifest it, and therefore he will
never bring
happiness. The best solution,
if all three hear this, is for the wife to
realize the true nature of her lover and
leave her husband for the sake of happiness. Then, let's
forget about the past and give
her a chance to start over, as if nothing
happened. That's the
right thing to do for the husband.  My promise is that
you forgive me and your new wife, and that you
accept my apology by becoming a
good daughter, a
good wife, and a good mother, putting
this matter in the past and sowing
good seeds from now on.
If you don't understand this completely and can't
do it, then you two
should separate. The longer you drag this on, the
more suffering you'll endure, the more you'll reach a dead end, and your whole
life will be filled with misery. The
wife should take custody of the children
and not remarry.
Find joy in
raising them, let them atone for
your mistakes, so you can become
a good mother and a good role model. Keep
the children, because a
second marriage isn't necessarily a happy one. Because
this is my wife, Hiến. I said that if you
can't reach an agreement, you ca
n't live happily
together because there's already a scar. It's very difficult. So
now, if possible, you two
should move to
another place where you can find work and relocate.  Let's
go to that place so we can live
together peacefully. It would be better than living
there, I'm afraid it won't transform. I
also hope that young people, seeing this,
seeing these difficult situations, won't
be impulsive, right? No family
wants their children to fall into
such a situation, so they should take
refuge in Buddhism from a young age. When they grow
up following Buddhism, they will understand cause and effect,
and they will be able to cultivate and transform their
karma, and they won't sow seeds that cause
suffering to themselves, their families, and instability
to society. The question continues from a message from Nham
Hoang on February 18, 2007, at
6:16 AM. Nham Hoang sent a message
about a female student who died in Thanh
Xuan who returns every 7 years to find the person who murdered her.
Last year, she sent messages to
seven people, asking them to help her kill the person. Seven
years ago, one man read it and deleted it. The
next day, Lam
died of illness. Two newlyweds who were on vacation
there also received a similar message and
sent it to seven others.  The next day, two people
won the lottery jackpot. A student read the
message and ignored it, then the next day had an
accident. "If you don't send this message to 70
people, you will encounter bad things. I'm being
forced. Sorry, but if you send this to 100 of
your friends, after 10 days good luck will
come to you." These are the kinds of messages that
pop up on our phones when we use Facebook and mobile networks.
So where did this message come from? Is it
a joke or is it true? Now,
Yen will analyze whether it's true or not so
we can rule out the truth. That is,
this message says that every time a traveler
dies in Thanh Xuan, every 7 years they return to
find the person who murdered them. She sends
messages to seven people, asking them to
help her murder them. That means those seven people
are asking her to help murder the person who murdered them.
And if anyone doesn't send it, they will
have an accident or die. Bad luck.
But if anyone sends it, they will win the lottery jackpot.
We are following the law of karma.  If
we accept someone's offer to kill
someone, we either get blessed or suffer
misfortune. It's impossible to accept
someone's offer to kill and then win the
lottery. This is a non-
karma story, it's wrong.
Even in normal life, if I said
I accepted someone's offer to kill and won the
lottery, then
those people are truly evil. So
where did this message come from? It's from
someone joking around, they didn't send it, they deleted it. They
sent it to Yen's phone and she threw it away.
And Yen is saying this publicly. So if you
just don't send a message and die the next day,
then Yen is saying this publicly, you should
die instantly, right? That's
why there's no karma here, it's a
paradox.
[Music]
[Applause]